the next topic we're going to cover is
internal and external range
liquidity this lesson is what's going to
be the turning point for most of you
this is what makes buyers easy you
really want to get your notepad out for
this one guys and understanding the
relationship between these types of
liquidity will unlock your ability to
read price action also very important
back test as
always be talking about time frame
alignment we're talking about monthly
levels into a daily structure we're
going to be using weekly levels into a
4-Hour structure we can use a daily
level into a 1hour structure so price is
fractal right so understanding external
to internal we can use these different
types of levels on the monthly weekly
and daily levels and using their
corresponding structure on The Daily 4
hour and 1
hour the relationship between internal
and external range liquidity and how
they interact is the key turning point
in really understanding where the market
is likely to draw to I consider this
lesson one of the most important if not
the most important one in the mentorship
so grab your notepad guys make notes and
back test the understanding you will
learn between these two is the
foundation to building the anticipatory
skills for Price movements and
understanding where the market is likely
to draw
to now what is internal and what is
external range liquidity internal range
liquidity or IRL is defined by fair
value gaps so imbalances on your chart
external range liquidity is defined by
old highs and old lows when external
range liquidity is taken a fair value
Gap becomes the next draw on liquidity
and when a fair value Gap is stacked an
all old low or a old
La
again and when if a value Gap is stacked
an old low or an old high external range
liquidity becomes the next
draw now we have a crude schematic over
here on how to see where internal and
where external range liquidity is we've
got this move
up starting from here so we have
external range over here which is an old
low right we move up going down down
down taking out that low so that is
external range liquidity right because
there's a old low down here now price
only does two things right it goes to
Old highs and old lows or seeks to
reprise into imbalances so in this range
where we draw lower from there was a
fair value Gap or an imbalance up higher
price took out external range liquidity
so what is the next thing price will do
price will draw to internal next which
is that fair value Gap so
think about it when you see a old high
or a old low get rated you want to
either look for an imbalance inside that
range to get repriced into right and
then once that get hit gets hit we can
move for the next one which is external
again same over here only reversed right
we have external range liquidity over
here as in an old high price moves lower
forms a swing low expands up higher
taking out that external range liquidity
in the process of taking out that
external range or old high over here we
form an imbalance down here which could
be a fair value
Gap then price moves back into that fair
value Gap after taking out external
range liquidity right and then when we
hit that internal range we want to go
for external
again as explained earlier price only
does two things it draws to Old highs
and old lows and it rebalances an
imbalance so there's literally nothing
else price does and with that in mind it
becomes very clear after you see old
highs or old lows getting rated what are
we going to look for next right we're
going to look for an imbalance where we
can trade into and let's say we are in
bearish order flow and we take out an
old low there's probably a fa value Gap
in a premium level on that same
structure we can look to trade and buy
into that old uh after that old low has
been rated we can buy into that fair
value Gap and once that fair value Gap
hits and it respects it we can look for
external range again right the flow of
the marketplace is that internal range
liquidity being tagged will be the
Catalyst for price to draw to external
range liquidity and vice versa and
external range liquidity being taken is
the Catalyst for price to draw to
internal range so it's only this and it
repeats as simple as that after time
after time it repeats like this external
to internal inter internal to external
using this understanding on the monthly
weekly daily and 4 hour is the key
you've all been looking for when it
comes to daily bias all right we've got
a Australian dollar US dollar monthly
chart over here now let's look where is
the monthly external range liquidity
over here right so we rate this external
range now without going further what
where does your eye draw
into you should be looking at a internal
range liquidity in the form of a fair
value Gap right so after external gets
rated where do we want to reach into we
can see this imbalance down here which
is a fair value Gap right
so if you looked at this area after we
got this external range liquidity rated
you're on the right
path and we can see this monthly
internal range liquidity in the form of
a fair value Gap gets stacked now what
happens afterwards
right let's look at this from a daily
perspective right we take out a monthly
external range liquidity Now using daily
structure to frame our setups what are
we going to be waiting for after this
monthly external range liquidity has
been taken we're going to look for a
monthly internal range to be the drawn
liquidity we have this outlined down
here now we need to wait for a little
bit of confirmation as always right so
we wait for a break of structure that
happens after we rate the monthly
external break of structure down here
return back into premium and it
continues down into that fair value
Gap example of aod us the monthly chart
as you can see external range liquidity
defined by the old high gets taken and
price starts to trade away from the high
so your eye should immediately go to
that bullish fair value Gap below market
price as the next draw in liquidity
because external range liquidity being
taken is the Catalyst for price to draw
to internal range liquidity which is
that fair value
Gap when we look at the marketplace with
this understanding of the relationship
between the two and we blend that with a
higher time frame charts your
understanding of price and where it's
likely to draw next should really start
to materialize we can see just from this
understanding on a relationship between
the two being used on a higher time
frame monthly chart we have managed to
frame a bearish bu for the whole two
months so think about it right you can
have a clear draw on liquidity for two
entire months all right we've got a GBP
AUD weekly chart over here again let's
look at it from here weekly external
range liquidity has been taken where is
your eye drawing
to do we see any imbalances down
here
nope where do we see an imbalance right
down here so with that IM imbalance
being present down here this fair value
Gap your eyes should immediately go
there for the next draw on liquidity
external range has been taken so what
are we going to look for next internal
range right weekly internal range
liquidity over here and it draws in
there
perfectly now we've hit that Weekly
internal range
liquidity think about it right external
to internal now we're in internal where
are we going to draw into next where is
your eye
going right external range liquidity
over here it's as simple as that
external has been rated over here we
draw back into internal internal has
been tacked where are we going to go we
going to go to external it's simple as
that so that Weekly external range
liquidity that old high has been
liquidated after going into
internal and looking at the daily chart
now we can see how we can frame our bias
on The Daily right so this was the draw
on liquidity we're drawing lower lower
lower right and then hitting that Weekly
internal range liquidity so we went from
external remember back to internal now
we've hit that internal range liquidity
going into a market maker buy model
right this is the sell side of the curve
over here then we're going into buy side
of the curve over here because we hit a
higher time frame discount array right
is the first value Gap so now we're
going to reach for external range
liquidity and the first external range
liquidity which is very obvious is this
long Wick here right so we're going to
eye up this liquidity which is also a
break of structure after we hit that
higher time frame array now when the
market displaces over here we have
internal range liquidity formed right so
again we go from external over here
where do we want to go we have internal
right back into into internal and after
we hit that internal where do we want to
go external again right so we have this
old high up here which is external range
liquidity and you might think but wait a
minute I thought this was external range
liquidity right but in this whole bigger
range every swing high or swing low is
external range liquidity and that
remember internal range liquidity will
be that fair value Gap we're looking for
for to mitigate with and continue
up so same case over here we take out
this external range liquidity again
where are we going to
go do we see any fair value gaps yes we
have this one and we have a fair value G
down here but why why why are we not
taking this fair value Gip right this
has something to do with premium
discount obviously if you take this
Range High to this range this range low
to this Range High this fair value G is
premium so it's more likely it will draw
into this discount fair value Gap right
so keep that one in
mind Market draws to that internal fair
value Gap in discount right of this
range swing low to swing High continues
up again where are we going to go after
we take this internal range again it's
it's on repeat right external to
internal to external to internal and it
keeps going and
going again external range liquidity
over here after we take that internal
range so we've went from this internal
on a higher time frame right that Weekly
internal range liquidity as the F value
Gap and now we're on a daily chart and
we can see day after day we're looking
for external to internal to external to
internal again back into
external right now we've hit that
external that extreme high up here what
do we want to do we want to go back into
an imbalance again right there's another
imbalance down here in the F Gap and it
keeps on going into internal and then
draws back into external so literally
it's external to internal to external on
repeat
again
external and then all the annotations
together you can see how this is forming
right think about that extreme High
we're going to and this High we rated an
external range liquidity over here
remember so we're drawing into a weekly
internal level weekly internal level is
down here right that fair value Gap now
we're looking for a by program by side
of the curve we're going to in to an
external range here back to
internal to external to internal to
external to internal and so on and so

on knowing the relationship between the
two is what leads us to a high
probability daily bias you can see how
many intraday opportunity we just had
with the understanding of the
relationship between internal and
external range
liquidity all right we've got a
USD dollar Index daily chart again
example after example and this is what
you need to see you need to train your
eyes for external to internal to
external and it will make your reading
of bias a lot a lot better and sometimes
you don't know what is the draw on
liquidity but with using external to
internal and internal to external it
will make it a little bit easier and
might I say more accurate so over here
external range liquidity again right
what do we do after we take external
range liquidity liquidity so what do we
do after we hit external range liquidity
again we want to go to internal range
right so where is internal range
liquidity we've got this big fair value
Gap up here price reprices back back
into that imbalance over here so we hit
that internal range liquidity what do we
want to do after we take internal range
liquidity go back to external
right we fill this up we look for this
external range liquidity down here and
we keep declining declining declining we
take out this external
range where are we going to draw into
next you might have guessed it already
we're going to internal again right you
can see it draw lower going back into
internal down here keep declining
declining taking out a low there's no
imbalance anymore over here so price has
issues going up way higher than here and
it just keeps declining taking out this
external range liquidity now we took
external range liquidity do we see an
imbalance anywhere right where we can
reprice
into yes we have over here we have this
daily fair value
Gip internal range liquidity we've got a
British pound Swiss frank daily chart
over
here again example after example keep
repeating
this down here external range liquidity
old swing low right over here and might
I add we have a rejection block here
right this long Wicked area over here
which is pretty deep in discount right
don't forget about your discount and
premium levels which is this whole range
right so we're pretty deep in discount
we rate a swing low which is external
range liquidity now where does your eye
draw
into right we have this candle's low to
this candle's High forming a fair value
Gap up here price draws in there after
we take external range liquidity so now
what are we going to do after we take
this internal range liquidity
idity you've guessed it we're probably
going to go into external range once
again so looking at a 1 hour chart makes
the structure look a little bit easier
to read right we have clear cell side of
the curve over here leaving that fair
value gap on The Daily time frame after
we take out this external range
liquidity we can actually see with one
hour chart starts to break up and starts
to break structure up here right break
of structure return back into discount
levels repricing
this internal range liquidity right
external over here back to internal
continuing up up up taking out external
where are we going next back to internal
right for Val gap down here and then
we're going to go for external again
which is this daily fair value Gap so we
went to external on a one hour chart and
on The Daily it's a internal range so
for some of you it's going to be easier
to spot than for somebody else but in my
experience I found it most easy to see
external range to internal range first
so we wait for an old high or a old low
to get rated right and then we want to
trade into an imbalance as a clear draw
on liquidity if you find it easier to
spot external range to internal range
you can just stick it with it like that
you can also go from internal range to
external range which could be a Ot Ot
entry right into a range on a fair value
Gap and then aiming for an old low or an
old high you don't ever have to trade
internal range to external range and the
same goes for those of you who can see
internal range to external range
important is what is most comfortable
for you to see so let's summarize
internal to external range liquidity the
relationship between the two being used
on the monthly weekly daily and the 4H
hour chart is the key that unlocks your
understanding to bias and builds the
anticipatory skills required to forecast
Market Direction and where price most
likely will move one of the biggest
misconceptions regarding low resistance
liquidity runs is there are only fragile
patterns on the chart like trend lines
or equal highs or equal lows that kind
of patterns but that is that is valid
however true low resistance liquidity
runs are framed of the higher time frame
pdas right so think about that monthly
levels weekly levels weekly fair value
gaps and and so on
the higher time frame monthly weekly and
daily charts are the Catalyst to
one-sided low resistant liquidity runs
occurring in the market place